The fugitive lay face down in the fetid undergrowth, drawing in
spasmodic lungfuls of air through cracked and swollen lips. Long before,
his blue workshirt had been ripped to ribbons and his exposed chest
showed a spiderwork of scratches, where branches and brambles had sought
to restrain him in his frenzied flight. Across his back from shoulder to
shoulder ran a deeper cut around which the caked blood attested to the
needlesharp viciousness of a thorn bush a mile to the north. With each
tortured breath he winced, as drops of sweat ran down, following the
spiderwork network and burning like acid. Incessantly he rubbed his
bruised torso with mudcaked palms to dislodge the gnats and mosquitoes
that clung to him, gorging shamelessly.

To the east he could see the lights of Fort Mudge where the railroad
cut through on its way to Jacksonville. He had planned to ride the
freight into Jacksonville but by now they were stopping every train and
searching along every foot of the railroad right of way. In the distance
he heard the eerie keen of a train whistle, and visualized the scene as
it was flagged down and searched from engine to caboose.

Directly before him loomed the forbidding northern boundary of the
Okefenokee Swamp. Unconsciously he strained his ears, then shuddered at
the night noises that issued from the noisome wilderness. A frenzied
threshing, then a splash, then ... silence. What drama of life and death
was being played out in that strange otherworld of perpetual shadows?

In sudden panic he jerked erect and cupped his palm round his ear. Far
off; muted by distance, but still unmistakable; he heard the baying of
bloodhounds. Then this was the end. A sob broke from his throat. What
was he, an animal; to be hunted down as a sport? Tears of selfpity
welled to his eyes as he thought back to a party and a girl and laughter
and cleanliness and the scent of magnolias, like a heady wine. But that
was so long agoso long agoand now.... He looked down at his
sweating, lacerated body; his blistered calloused palms; the black
broken nails; the cheap workshoes with hemp laces; the shapeless gray
cotton trousers, now wet to the knees.

He pulled back his shoulders and resolutely faced west toward the
river, but stopped short in horror as he heard the sudden cacophony of
barks, yelps and howls of a pack of bloodhounds that senses the
beginning of the end. He turned in panic. They couldn't be over half a
mile away. In a panic of indecision he turned first east then west, then
facing due south he hesitated a moment to take one last look at the
clear open skies, and with a muffled prayer plunged into the brooding
depths of the Okefenokee.

The building still hummed and vibrated with the dying echoes of the
alarm siren as the biophysicist hurried down the corridor, and without
breaking stride, pushed open the door to the Director's office.

The Director shuffled the papers before him and sighed heavily. His
chair creaked protestingly as he shifted his bulk and looked up.

"Well?"

"He got away clean," said the biophysicist.

"Any fix on the direction?"

"None at all, sir. And he's got at least a two hours' start. That takes
in a pretty big area of space."

"Hmmm! Well there's just a bare chance. That experimental cruiser is
the fastest thing in space and it's equipped with the latest
etheroradar. If we get started right away, we just might"

"That's just it," interrupted the biophysicist. "That's the ship he got
away in."

The Director jumped angrily to his feet. "How did that happen? How can I
explain to the board?"

"I'm sorry, sir. He was just too"

"You're sorry?" He slumped back in his chair and drummed the desk top
with his fingernails, worrying his lower lip with his teeth. He exhaled
loudly and leaned forward. "Well, only one thing to do. You know the
orders."

The biophysicist squirmed uncomfortably. "Couldn't we send a squadron of
ships out to search and"

"And what?" asked the Director, sarcastically. "You don't think I'd risk
a billion credits worth of equipment on a wildgoose chase like that, do
you? We could use up a year's appropriation of fuel and manpower and
still be unable to adequately search a sector onetenth that size. If he
just sat still, a thousand ships couldn't find him in a thousand years,
searching at finite speeds. Add to that the fact that the target is
moving at ultralight speed and the odds against locating him is
multiplied by a billion."

"I know, but he can't stay in space. He'll have to land somewhere,
sometime."

"True enoughbut where and when?"

"Couldn't we alert all the nearby planets?"

"You know better than that. He could be halfway across the galaxy before
an etherogram reached the nearest planet."

"Suppose we sent scout ships to the nearer planets and asked them to
inform their neighbors in the same way. We'd soon have an expanding
circle that he couldn't slip through."

The Director smiled wryly. "Maybe. But who's going to pay for all this.
By the time the circle was a thousand lightyears in diameter there
would be ten thousand ships and a million clerks working on recapturing
one escaped prisoner. Another thing; I don't know offhand what he's been
sentenced for, but I'll wager there are ten thousand planets on which
his crime would not be a crime. Do you think we could ever extradite him
from such a planet? And even if by some incredible stroke of fortune one
of our agents happened to land on the right planet, in which city would
he begin his search. Or suppose our quarry lands only on uninhabited
planets? We can't very well alert the whole galaxy in the search for
just one man."

"I know, but"

"But what?" interrupted the Director. "Any other suggestions?"

"N ... no"

"All right, he asked for it. You have the pattern, I presume. Feed it
to Fido!"

"Yes, sir, but well ... I just don't"

"Do you think I like it?" asked the Director, fiercely.

In the silence that followed, they looked at each other, guiltily.

"There's nothing else we can do," said the Director. "The orders are
explicit. No one escapes from Hades!"

"I know," replied the biophysicist. "I'm not blaming you. Only I wish
someone else had my job."

"Well," said the Director, heavily. "You might as well get started." He
nodded his head in dismissal.

As the biophysicist went out the door, the Director looked down once
more at the pile of papers before him. He pulled the top sheet closer,
and rubberstamped across its faceCASE CLOSED.

"Yes," he mused aloud. "Closed for us, but" He hesitated a moment, and
then sighing once more, signed his name in the space provided.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUGUST 6, 430th Year GALACTIC ERA

Tee Ormond sat morosely at the spaceport bar, and alternately wiped his
forehead with a soggy handkerchief, and sipped at his frosted rainbow,
careful not to disturb the varicolored layers of liquid in the tall
narrow glass. Every now and then he nervously ran his fingers through
his straight black hair, which lay damply plastered to his head. His
jacket was faded and worn, and above the left pocket was emblazoned the
meteor insignia of the spaceman. A dark patch on his back showed where
the perspiration had seeped through. He blinked and rubbed the corner of
his eye as a drop of perspiration ran down and settled there.

A casual look would have classified him as a very average looking pilot
such as could be found at the bar of any spaceport; i.e. if space pilots
can ever be classified as average. Spacemen are the last true
adventurers in an age where the debilitating culture of a highly
mechanized civilization has pushed to the very borders of the galaxy.
While most men are fearful and indecisive outside their narrow
specialties the spacemen must at all times be ready to deal with the
unexpected and the unusual. The expression"Steady as a spaceman's
nerves"had a very real origin.

A closer look at Tee would have revealed the error of a quick
classification. He gripped his drink too tightly, and his eyes darted
restlessly from side to side, as though searching, searching; yet
dreading to find the object of their search. His expressive face
contorted in a nervous tic each time his eyes swept by the clock hanging
behind the bar. He glanced dispiritedly out the window at the
perpetually cloudy sky and idly watched a rivulet of water race down the
dirty pane. He loosened his collar and futilely mopped at his neck with
the soggy handkerchief, then irritably flung it to the floor.

"Hey, Jo," he yelled to the bartender. "What's the matter with the
airconditioning? I'm burning up."

"Take it easy," soothed the bartender, consulting a thermometer on the
wall behind him, "it's eightyfive in here. That's as low as the law
allows. Can't have too much difference in the temperature or all my
customers'd pass out when they go outside. Why don't you go into town?
They keep it comfortable under the dome."

"Don't this planet ever cool off?" asked Tee.

The bartender chuckled. "I see you don't know too much about Thymis.
Sometimes it drops to ninety at night, but not too often. You ought to
be here sometime when the clouds part for a minute. If you're caught
outside then, it's thirddegree burns for sure."

He glanced down at the nearly empty glass. "How about another rainbow?
If you get enough of them in you, you won't notice the heatyou won't
notice anything." He laughed uproariously at the hoary joke.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tee looked at him disgustedly and without answering bent to his drink
once more. He felt someone jostle his elbow and turned sideways to allow
the newcomer access to the bar. After a moment he wiped his forehead on
his sleeve. The bartender placed another rainbow before him.

"Hey, I didn't order that," he cried.

The bartender nodded toward the next stool. "On him."

Tee turned and saw a barrelchested redhaired giant holding up a drink
in the immemorial bar toast. He raised his own glass gingerly, but his
trembling hand caused the layers to mix and he stared ruefully at the
resultant clayeylooking mess.

The redhead laughed. "Mix another one, Jo."

"But" Tee's face got red.

"I came in here to talk to you anyway," said the giant. "You own the
Starduster, don't you?"

"Yeah, what about it?"

"Like to get her out of hock?"

"Who says she's in hock?"

"Look," said the redhead. "Let's not kid each other. Everybody around
this port knows you blew in from Lemmyt last month and can't raise the
money to pay the port charges, much less the refueling fee. And it's no
secret that you're anxious to leave our fair planet." He winked
conspiringly at Tee.

"So?"

The redhead glanced at the bartender who was busy at the other end of
the bar. He leaned closer and whispered. "I know where the Elen of
Troy is."

"The Elen of Troy?"

"Oh, that's right, you wouldn't know about her. Eight months ago she
crashed on an uninhabited planet somewhere in this sector. So far
they've been unable to find her." He leaned closer. "She was carrying
four million in Penryx crystals."

"What's that to me?"

The redhead looked around briefly to make sure no one was in hearing
distance, then whispered softly, without moving his lips. "I told you,
they can't find her, but I know where she is."

"You know? But how"

"Look," said the giant, frowning, "I didn't ask you why you're so
anxious to leave."

"Well?"

"I'll clear your ship and we can pick up the crystals for the salvage
fee. A million each, and all nice and legal. We can leave by the end of
the week and be back in probably six months."

"Six months!" Tee stood up. "Sorry!"

The redhead grabbed his arm in a hamlike palm. "A million each in six
months; what's wrong with that?"

Tee jerked out of his grasp. "I ... I just can't do it."

"I don't know what you're running from," persisted the redhead, "but
with a million credits you can fight extradition for the rest of your
life. This is your big chance, can't you see that. Besides, this planet
has some interesting customs." He winked at Tee. "I can introduce you"

"I can't stay here," interrupted Tee. "You just don't understand."

"Look," cried the redhead exasperatedly, "I'm offering you a full
partnership on a two million credit salvage deal and you want to back
out because it'll take six months. On top of that you're broke and
stranded and your hangar bill gets bigger every day. If you don't take
me up on this deal, you'll still be sitting here six months from now
wondering how to get your ship out of hockif you don't get caught
first. What do you say? What've you got to lose?"

What did he have to lose? Tee gripped the edge of the bar till his
knuckles showed white. "No! I just can't do it. Why don't you get
someone else?"

"The slow tubs around this port would take years for the trip. I can see
the Starduster has class."

"Fastest thing in the galaxy," said Tee, proudly. Then earnestly, "I'm
sorry, you'll just have to find some other ship."

"Think it over," said the redhead. "I'll wait. When you change your mind
look me up. Name's Yule Larson." He slapped Tee heavily on the back and
swaggered toward the door. He turned and looked back. "Better go along
with me. After six months they can auction off your ship to pay for the
port charges, you know." The door swung shut behind him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tee sat down again and bent his head, nursing his drink. His eyes darted
nervously around the room and came to rest on the clock. A shudder ran
through him and he lowered his eyes quickly. As he sipped his drink his
eyes returned to the clock continually, as though drawn there against
their will. As he watched, the minute hand jerked downward and an
involuntary gasp escaped his lips.

The bartender turned quickly. "Anything wrong?"

"N ... no, nothing." As he spoke, the minute hand moved again and Tee
started nervously, upsetting his drink. He sat for a moment watching the
bartender mop up the spreading liquid, then abruptly got up and tossed a
halfcredit piece on the bar. He hurried outside, steeling himself to
keep from running. He paused just outside the door.

Stand still, he told himself. Mustn't run! Mustn't run! No use
anyway. If I only knew when. If I just could stop and rest. If I had the
time ... Time! Time! That's what I need. Lightyears of time ... But
when? When? If only I could be sure. He looked up slowly at the murky
canopy of clouds. If I only knew when! He looked indecisively up and
down the field, then squaring his shoulders resolutely, set out for the
administration building.

At this hour the office was deserted except for a wispyhaired little
man who sat at a desk fussing with some papers. He looked up
questioningly as Tee came in.

"Is my ship recharged and provisioned?" asked Tee.

"Uh, what's the name please?"

"Tee Ormond. I own the Starduster."

The clerk pulled a card from a file on the desk and studied it. "Ah,
yes, the Starduster."

"I'd like to pay my bill and clear the Starduster for immediate
departure."

"Uh, very good, Mr. Ormond." He consulted the card again. "That'll be
fourteen hundred and eleven credits." He beamed. "We included a case of
Ruykeser's Concentrate, compliments of the management." He handed a
circular to Tee. "This is a list of our ports and facilities on other
planets. Our accommodations are the finest, and we carry a complete line
of parts." He smiled professionally.

"What about my key?" asked Tee, pulling out his wallet.

"Uh, let's see, number thirtyseven." The clerk started for a numbered
board hanging on the wall. He never got there.

Tee whipped a stungun from inside his jacket and waved it at the
clerk's back. It caught him in midstride, and unbalanced, he crashed
heavily to the floor. Tee glanced briefly down as he stepped over the
paralyzed form, avoiding the accusing eyes, and snatched the magnetic
key off the hook. He forced himself to walk calmly across the field
toward the hangar that housed the Starduster.

A uniformed guard stopped him at the hangar door. "May I see your
clearance, sir?" he asked, politely.

Tee hesitated for a moment. "Oh, I'm just going to get something out of
my ship," he said, smoothly. "The clerk said it was roj."

"The clerk said? But he can't" The guard tensed. "Mind if I check,
sir? Orders, you know." He bent his head slightly as he pressed a knob
on his wrist radio. As his eyes turned downward, Tee swung the stungun
in an arc that ended on the back of the guard's head. As he leaped into
the Starduster he was sorry for a moment that he hadn't had time to
recharge the gun, and hoped he hadn't struck too hard.

[Illustration]

       *       *       *       *       *

OCTOBER 11, 433rd Year GALACTIC ERA

Tee stepped out of the hangar and surveyed the twin suns. The pale
binaries sat stolidly on the horizon, forty degrees apart. Their mingled
light washed down dimly on the single continent of the planet, Aurora.

He started, as a man walked around the corner of the hangar. The man
looked at Tee searchingly for a moment, then asked, "Anything troubling
you, Tee?"

"Why ... why, no, Mr. Jenner. You just startled me, that's all."

"Well, how's everything coming?"

"Right on schedule. We'll be ready for the final test by the end of the
week."

"By the way," asked Jenner, speculatively, "how come you ordered the
ship stocked and provisioned, for the test?"

"Why ... why I think she should be tested under exactly the same
conditions as she'll encounter in actual use."

"We could have done it a lot cheaper by just using ballast," said
Jenner. "After this, I want to personally see any voucher for over a
hundred credits before it's cleared."

"Yes, sir, but I just didn't want to bother you with details."

"An expenditure of over two thousand credits isn't just detail; but let
it pass. It's already done. Anyway, on the drawing board she's the
fastest thing in the galaxy." He smiled. "If she lives up to
expectations, she'll make your ship look like an old freighter. We've
got four million sunk in her so far, so she'd better check out roj."

He put his hand on Tee's shoulder. "You're not worried about testing
her, are you? You've been jumpy lately."

"Oh, no, nothing like that, Mr. Jenner. I'm just ... well, I've been up
all night watching them install the gyroscopes. Think I'll get some
sleep." He yawned.

Jenner cupped his chin in his palm and stood staring after the
retreating figure. As Tee turned and looked back nervously, Jenner
entered the hangar office. He spoke softly into the visiphone and in a
moment the screen lit up.

"Is this the prison administrator?" asked Jenner.

"What can I do for you?"

"My name is Jenner; Consolidated Spacecraft."

"Yes?"

"Suppose an escaped prisoner from Hades landed on Aurora?"

"No one escapes from Hades Prison."

"Well, just suppose one did?"

"I never receive information about escapees."

"But you're the administrator here."

"My job, as the title implies, is purely administrative. I merely
arrange transportation for our annual shipment of prisoners to Hades,
and see that the records are kept straight."

"But whom would they contact in the event of an escape?"

The administrator pursed his lips in impatience. "Hades has six billion
prisoners at any given time. If one did manage to escape, they couldn't
very well alert a million planets."

"You mean you wouldn't do anything?"

"As I said before, my job is purely administrative. Out of my
jurisdiction entirely. Each planet has its own police force and handles
its internal crime in its own way. What's legal on Aurora might very
well be illegal on ten thousand other planets, and vice versa."

"I see. Thank you." Jenner cut the connection slowly. He flicked the
switch open again, hesitated, and then closed it.

       *       *       *       *       *

He walked out to where his gyrocar was parked, and in a few minutes set
it down on the roof of Tee's hotel. Tee was just entering the lobby as
Jenner came in and they went up to his room together.

"I'll come right to the point, Tee," he said, as soon as the door had
closed. "I just talked to the local prison administrator for Hades." He
looked closely at Tee.

"What's that got to do with me?" asked Tee, belligerently.

"Wait until I finish," said Jenner, curtly. "I hired you to testhop our
new ship because you were the best pilot available. I'm not interested
in your past, but most of the company's resources are sunk in that
ship. If something goes wrong because the test pilot is disturbed or
nervous, the company will be bankrupt. I'm not saying you're an escaped
prisoner, but if you were, you'd have nothing to worry about."

"What do you mean?"

"The administrator told me he has no jurisdiction over escaped
prisoners, so you see, if you had escaped, you'd have nothing to fear
here. You're out of their jurisdiction."

Tee began to laugh wildly. "Out of their jurisdiction! Out of their
jurisdiction! So that's the way they put it. Out of their
jurisdiction!"

"Stop it!" said Jenner, sharply. "Do you want to tell me now?"

Tee drew in a gasping breath and sobered. "What would I have to tell
you? So I'm the nervous type. So you hired me to testhop your new ship.
So I'll testhop it. That's all we agreed on. What more do you want?"

Jenner sighed. "Roj, Tee, if that's the way you want it, but I wish"

The visiphone buzzed, and when Tee flipped the switch, the worried face
of the chief mechanic sprang into focus. "Oh, there you are, Mr. Jenner.
Glad I caught you before you left. We've run into trouble."

"Well, out with it," barked Jenner. "What is it?"

The mechanic cleared his throat nervously. "We were testing the main
gyroscope when it threw a blade."

"How bad is it?" asked Jenner.

"Pretty bad, I'm afraid. It tore up the subetherscope unit so bad we'll
have to replace it. We can't get any on Aurora either. We'll have to
send to Lennix, and that'll take close to a month."

"Roj! Knock off until I get there," barked Jenner. He slammed over the
switch, viciously. "Of all the rotten luck!"

"Can't you get some plant here on Aurora to hand tool one for you?"
asked Tee.

"No, that's just it," replied Jenner. "It's a special alloy. The owners
of the process wouldn't give us any details on the manufacture. Anyway,
even if we knew how, we couldn't duplicate it without their special
machine tools."

"Does that mean"

"I'm afraid so. The ship won't be ready for a month, now."

"A month! I can't wait a month."

"You can't wait a month? We've got four million tied up in that ship
and you tell me you can't wait a month."

"Look, Mr. Jenner, I'll test it without the unit."

"That's impossible. The ship would vibrate into a billion pieces as soon
as it went into subspace. No! We'll just have to wait."

"I can't wait," cried Tee. "You'll have to get another pilot."

"Just a minute! You can't walk out on your contract. If it's a matter of
credits"

Tee shook his head. "That's not it at all. I just can't stay that long."

Jenner looked at him angrily. "Well, your contract isn't up till the
end of the week anyway. We'll see what we can do about a replacement
then."

       *       *       *       *       *

After Jenner had left, Tee sat smoking in the darkness. He placed his
elbow on the couch arm and cupped his chin in his palm. Then restlessly,
he snuffed out his cigarette and rubbed his hands together. They felt
moist and clammy. He jerked nervously as a click sounded out in the
hall. Only a door opening across the way. He bit the fleshy part of his
middle finger and then began to worry his ring with his teeth. He lit
another cigarette and dropped it into the disposal almost immediately.

He got up and began to pace the room. Six steps forward. Turn. Six steps
back. Turn. Six steps forwardor was it five this time? The walls
seemed to be closing in, constricting. His head felt light and his
tongue and palate grew dry. He tried to swallow, and a feeling of nausea
came over him. His throat grew tight and he felt as though he were
choking. Rubbing his forehead with the back of his hand it came away wet
with perspiration. He rushed to the window and struggled futilely with
it, forgetting it was sealed shut in the airconditioned hotel. He flung
himself at the door, wrenching it open and took the escalator three
steps at a time falling to his knees at the ground floor. A surface cab
was sitting outside just beyond the entrance. He flung himself in,
breathing heavily and fumbling to drop a coin in the slot, pulled the
control lever all the way over.

Twenty minutes later, the Starduster hovered for a moment over Aurora,
then shimmered and vanished as it went into subspace.

       *       *       *       *       *

OCTOBER 2, 435th Year GALACTIC ERA

The Starduster materialized just outside the atmosphere of the planet
Elysia, and fluttered erratically downward, like a wounded bird. A
hundred feet from the surface, the ship hesitated, shuddered throughout
her length, then dropped like a plummet, crashing heavily into a grove
of trees.

For Tee there was a long period of blessed darkness, of peace, of
nonremembering, then his mind clawed upward toward consciousness. The
fear and uncertainty were with him againnagging, nibbling, gnawing at
his reason.

He fought to close his mind and drift back down into the darkness of
peace and forgetting, but contrarily the past marched in review before
his consciousness: The twin worlds of Thole revolving about each other
as he fled down the shallow ravine before the creeping wall of lava,
while the ancient mountain grunted and belched, and coughed up its
insides. The terrible pull of the uncharted black star as it tugged at
the feeble Starduster. The enervating heat and humidity of perpetually
cloudy Thymis. Pyramids of gleaming penryx crystals piled high as
mountains, and Yule Larson towering above the landscape, draining
gargantuan rainbows at a single gulp; striding like Paul Bunyan across
the land in milelong strides and kicking over the pyramids of crystals,
laughing uproariously at the sport. And Jenner, grinning idiotically,
pointing a thick finger at him and repeating over and over: "Out of
their jurisdiction! Nothing to fear! Nothing to fear! Nothing to fear!
Noth"

"Stop it! Stop it!" cried Tee, and a brilliant burst of light like a
thousand skyrockets seemed to go off in his head. He shrieked like an
animal in agony, then fell back sobbing, bathed in perspiration.

Something cool touched his forehead and he pulled away violently, then
as his head cleared he opened his eyes slowly. A blur of shadows and
light shimmering indistinctly, then suddenly like the picture on a
visiphone the blurs coalesced and formed a clear image, and everything
was normal again, the fear still hovering close, but pushed back for the
time being.

A girl stood before him smiling rather uncertainly. The sweetness and
cleanness of that smile after his recent ordeal washed over his tortured
mind like a cooling astringent, and he smiled gratefully up at her. She
put a cool palm on his forehead and as she started to withdraw it he
clutched it in an emaciated fist and mumbled indistinctly through
cracked dry lips.

She smiled down at him and smoothed back his damp hair. She pulled up a
chair beside the bed and continued to stroke his hair until his eyes
closed in sleep.

He awoke ravenous and thirsty, but lay quietly for a time, luxuriating
in the feel of the clean soft sheets. He was in a simply but tastefully
decorated room. Three of the walls were made of transparent glass and
the warm golden rays of a type G sun bathed the room. Outside he could
see green rolling meadowland, broken here and there by sylvan groves. A
brilliantly colored bird swooped down and preened itself for a moment,
then raised its head and flooded the silence with melody. Faintly from a
grove of trees came an answering treble. The songbird cocked its head to
the side, listening, then swooped upward on wings of flashing color. A
small squirrellike creature bounded nervously up to the transparent wall
and sat on its haunches, surveying the room with bright beady eyes. As
Tee's ears attuned themselves he was suddenly aware of chirpings,
trebles, clearpitched whistles, and from somewhere in the depths of the
grove, a deeppitched garooph, garoomph.

       *       *       *       *       *

A chubby little man with a round face and alert twinkling eyes entered
the room. He seemed to radiate happiness and contentment. "Well, I see
the patient's finally come around," he said, cheerfully.

"What happened?" asked Tee.

"Your ship crashed just beyond that grove."

Tee clutched at him. "The ship! How bad is it?"

"I think you were in worse shape than your ship. You must have had it
under control almost to the end, though how you stayed conscious with
space fever is beyond me."

"Space fever? So that's it. I remember getting sick and lightheaded and
just before I passed out I flipped out of subspace and the automatic
finder, of course, took the ship to the nearest planet. I must have
landed by reflex action. I sure don't remember anything about it."

"Well," the man laughed, "I have seen better landings, but not when
the pilot had a temperature of oneofive. Anyway, you're safe now.
Welcome to Elysia."

There it was again. Safe! Safe! Tee raised up, then fell back weakly.

"Is anything wrong?" asked the little man, alarmed.

"N ... nothing, I just ... nothing!"

The man was looking at him questioningly.

"Elysia," mused Tee. "I seem to remember an old old myth brought from
the original Earth." He waved toward the sylvan setting, outside.

The little man smiled. "Yes, the old settlers named our planet well." He
caught himself. "Oh, I'm sorry; I'm Dr. Chensi. This is my home."

Tee smiled. "Well at least you'll have to admit I showed good judgment
crashing next to a doctor's house." Then more seriously, "Thanks, doc,
thanks for everything."

"My degrees aren't in medicine," replied Dr. Chensi. "I'm afraid I had
little to do with your recovery. My daughter's the one who nursed you.
Oh, here she is now." He raised his voice. "Come in, Lara."

Since Dr. Chensi was using the only chair she sat down on the edge of
the bed.

"Here," said the doctor, teasingly, "what kind of nurse are you, mussing
up your patient's bed?"

She pouted prettily. "He's my patient." Then looking down at Tee with
a smile, "You'll be up and around in no time now."

"Time!" cried Tee, raising up. "What's the date? I've got to know!"

"You've been delirious for two weeks," answered the doctor. "Another two
weeks of convalescence and you ought to be as good as new."

"But two weeks, I can't"

"Can't leave before then anyway," replied the doctor calmly. "I knew
you'd want your ship repaired so I had it hauled to the port. Won't be
ready for two more weeks. So you might as well relax."

Tee bit his lip, and clenched his fists to keep from trembling. It was a
moment before he could trust himself to speak without a quaver in his
voice. "Nothing else I can do, I guess. Thanks, anyway. And by the way,
there's enough credits in the ship's safe to pay for the repairs, I'm
sure."

"I think we should start the patient walking tomorrow," said Lara, in a
mockprofessional voice. She punched the ends of Tee's pillow. "Now
you'd better get some sleep. You're still very weak, you know."

       *       *       *       *       *

The days that followed were like an idyll for Tee. With Lara he wandered
through the parklike wooded groves. They sat near shaded pools and ate
wild berries while she told him stories of the founding of Elysia. They
held hands and ran exuberantly across the grassy meadows, and waded like
children in the clear brooks.

A thousand times, a word, an endearing term, sprang to his lips, and
each time the fear clamped his tongue in a vise of steel. A thousand
times he wanted to touch her, feel the silkiness of her hair, the warmth
of her lips, but each time the fear and uncertainty stood between them
like twin specters of doom, pointing and saying, "Fool! Why torture
yourself?"

In the daytime when Lara was with him it wasn't so bad, but at night the
fear and uncertainty crowded to the fore and blanked out everything
else. It was then he prayed for the courage to kill himself, and
despised the weakness that made him draw back from the thought. If only
he could stop thinking. Make his mind a blank. But that was death, and
death was what he feared. How long ago was it when he'd first realized
that hope was an illusion, a false god that smiled and lied, and held
out vain promises only to prolong the torture?

Then one day the word came that his ship was repaired. As though the
word were a catalyst the terrible fear overwhelmed him, drowning out
every other thought, and he knew he had to leave. When he had no means
of leaving the planet he could partially close off his dread and wait
resignedly. But now that the ship was ready, every moment he remained
was an agony.

He led Lara to their favorite spot by a quiet pool. She looked radiant,
and smiled to herself, as though at a secret. He steeled himself and
finally blurted out, "Lara, I'm leaving tomorrow." He hesitated and bit
his lip. "And ... thanks for everything."

"Thanks?" She choked on the words.

"I'm sorry" he trailed off, lamely.

"But ... but I thought" She looked down.

He reached out and gently touched her cheek. "Can't you see I want to
stay?" he pleaded.

"Then why? Why?" She was crying now.

"I ... I just can't. It's no good." He stood up.

She reached out and caught his hand. "Then take me with you. I've heard
you at night pacing in your room. I don't know what it is that drives
you on and on, but if space is what you want, let me go with you. I can
help you, darling. You'll see. And some day when you grow tired of
space, we can come back to Elysia." She was babbling now.

He pulled roughly away. "No! It's no good. I'mIf only I could
stay." He brushed her hair softly with his palm and as she reached out
toward him he turned and walked swiftly toward the house, pitying and
hating himself by turn, while Lara sat forlornly by the pool looking
after him.

He began to sweat before he reached the house and his knees began to
tremble so, he had to stop for a moment, to keep his balance.
Determinedly he started forward again and continued on past the house to
the highway that wound by half a kilometer away. There he hailed a
passing ground car and rode to the spaceport, where a few judiciously
distributed credits facilitated his immediate clearance. Before the ship
had even left the atmosphere he rammed in the subspace control.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAY 4, 437th Year GALACTIC ERA

Tantalus lay far out on a spiral arm, well away from the main stream of
traffic that flowed through the galaxy. It was a fair planet boasting an
equable climate, at least in the tropic zone. But as yet the population
was small, consisting mostly of administrative officials who served
their alloted time and thankfully returned to their home planets closer
to the center of population.

Tee entered the towering building and after consulting a wall directory
stepped into the antigrav chute and was whisked high up into the heart
of the building. He stepped out before a plain door and as he advanced
the center panel fluoresced briefly with the printed legendGALACTIC
PRISON AUTHORITY, Ary Mefford, Administrator for Tantalus.

He hesitated for a moment, then squaring his shoulders stepped forward,
and as he crossed the beam the door swung open before him. The
grayhaired man sitting at the desk studying a paper, looked up and
smiled politely. He indicated a chair with a nod then bent his head
again. After a moment he shoved the paper aside and looked questioningly
at Tee.

"I want to give myself up," blurted Tee.

"I'm the administrator for Hades," said the man calmly. "I think you
want the local authorities."

"You don't understand. I escaped from Hades."

"No one escapes from Hades," replied the administrator.

"I escaped!" insisted Tee. "Ten years ago. You can check. I'm tired of
running. I want to go back."

"This is most unusual," said the administrator in a disturbed voice. He
looked unbelievingly at Tee. "Ten years ago you say?"

"Yes! Yes! And I'm ready to go back, before it's too late. Can't you
understand?"

The administrator shook his head pityingly. "It's already too late. I'm
sorry." He bent his head guiltily and began to fumble with the papers on
his desk.

Tee started to say something, but the administrator raised his head and
said slowly, "It was too late the day you left Hades. Nothing I can
do." He looked down again. Tee turned and slowly walked out the door.
The administrator didn't look up.

As Tee walked aimlessly down the deserted corridor, his footsteps echoed
hollowly like a dirge. A line from an old poem sprang to his mind: "We
are the dead, row on row we lie" He was the dead, but still he chased
the chimera of hope, yet knowing in his heart it was hopeless.

       *       *       *       *       *

JUNE 11, 437th Year GALACTIC ERA

The Starduster, pocked and pitted from innumerable collisions with
dust particles, sped out and out. The closepacked suns of the central
hub lay far behind. Here at the rim of the galaxy the stars lay
scattered, separated by vast distances. A gaunt holloweyed figure sat
in the observation bubble staring halfhopefully, halfdespairingly at
the unimaginable depths beyond the rim.

       *       *       *       *       *

JUNE 12, 437th Year GALACTIC ERA

On and on past the thinning stars raced the patient electronic
bloodhound; invisible, irreversible, indestructible; slowly, but
inexorably accelerating. It flashed by the planet Damocles at multiples
of the speed of light, and sensing the proximity of the prey on which it
was homed, spurted into the intergalactic depths after the receding
ship, intent on meshing with and thereby distorting the encephalograph
pattern of its target. It was quite mindless, and the final pattern its
meshing would create would be something quite strange, and not very
human.

About this thing, I couldn't stand to have them laugh. Not the way they
did about the swimming.

"Oh, come now. No one could learn to swim by reading a book.
Fiveeighths of a mile the first time in the water!"

And they laughed. I guess I laughed, too. More than any other thing,
I've wanted people to be happy. But I never swam againonly that first
time.

I've always read a lot and sometimes things I've read do get mixed up
with things I've done. But the things still happenedthey happened to
someone. And people ought to believe.

I'd like to tell people now. I'd like to say, "I died once."

But if they laughed, it might be later and I'd never hear them. Already
there are too many silent things in this. There must be no silent
laughter as well.

They might think I've got myself all mixed up with things I've read.
Things like surgeons pumping life into a heart to bring the patient
back after he's died on the operating table. Doctors reviving dead
soldiers, if they haven't been gone too long.

It's not like that at all. I was truly deadfor three days. It was
almost too long; I suppose I made it back just in time. I don't know.

My reading was what started me on this, just the same as with the
swimming. When I think about it too much, I almost feel myself that I
am exaggerating a bit.

But I have proof, proof which no one has ever seen but the doctors and
those who found me. See how they keep me swathed in these cloths and
how the darkened room hides my eyes?

Anyway, I'd be ashamed to show myself, for the mark of death is too
terrible and people would be even more afraid of dying than they are
now.

       *       *       *       *       *

You see, I could have done it in the winter, only I was worried about
the cold. I might not have been able to get back at all. But it was too
warm when I chose to do it. I should have known better. I've read a
lot about keeping things. You can't preserve them in the hot weather;
that's why the doctors put those dead soldiers in ice chests, but I
didn't think about it enough. I made some other mistakes, too, but I
couldn't have known.

I guess what started it all was something I read a long time ago,
perhaps in a story, or an agricultural bulletin, or maybe in an
encyclopedia. Anyhow, it was something about pigs being able to just
die if they want to.

That always stuck in my mind. It's a pretty wonderful thing, you know.
Imagine just being able to die if life didn't seem worth living, or if
you were lonely, or maybe just because you wanted to.

Oh, I told lots of people about it. You know how sometimes a lull comes
in a conversation. Then I'd say, "Pigs are able to just up and die if
they want to."

But nobody ever paid any attention to me at all. They seemed to ignore
the remark. One man did say once, "What the hell are you talking
about?" but even he wouldn't listen when I tried to explain.

Perhaps it was just too improbable. Besides, people don't like to think
about death. They talk about it sometimes and sometimes they brood
about it, but they never really think. It has always been too unknown
and that frightens them. Then they only fear and stop thinking.

It always did seem sad to me that no one had ever tried to help people
out about death. Yes, I know one did. He died and came backbut then
He wasn't just a man like you or me. And even He never said exactly
what it was like.

I wondered if anyone really ever had said. So I began to read with
only a single purpose in mind. I had to know so I could tell people. If
they could only know, then they wouldn't have that fear and we could
talk of death and still be able to laugh.

But I had read it all when I read of Jacob's dream, for that's all
there wasdreams, visions, hopes. No one had ever seen and come back
to tell the others.

The question then was why, not what. It couldn't be that all who
died had no whole being to return to. Not every death is marked by a
body completely uninhabitable. I myself had heard a doctor say, "There
is nothing organically wrong now. The patient will recover if only he
has the will to live."

The will to live! Suddenly I knew I had found the way. I myself would
go and see and return to tell them all.

       *       *       *       *       *

I answered all the requirements. I had a healthy body to return to. I
had the will to live, for I enjoy my reading and acquaintances. And I
alone had thought it wonderful that pigs can die when they merely want
to.

I knew that I could, too, and I was not afraid. Very carefully, I began
what seemed almost too simple preparations.

Drawing some money from an account I kept for medical expenses (at the
time I thought this very amusing), I bought an electric clock which
registered the hour and the day of the month on cylinders like those on
a tachometer. I felt I would want to know exactly how long I had been
deceased when I came back.

Next I secured a small round mirror with a concave face, the type
some use for shaving. This I was to hang directly above my face. It
was merely vanity on my part, for I wished to say that I as well as
Lazarus's friends had seen a dead man rise. I had assumed that at first
my vision might be blurred and thus the magnifying effect of this
particular glass would, I thought, help me focus on my face.

On my study floor, I prepared a pallet. It was neither soft nor hard,
just a comfortable support for the body I was to leave. Beside it I
arranged a basin of water and some soft cloths, for I would want to
wash right after coming back.

You see, I did not fear the obvious. My power lay in thought and I
proceeded systematically.

Drawn blinds and two small nightlights spread a gray cast over the
room, a cast that I was to know too well.

Everything was ready now. No, wait! Quickly I placed a tumbler and a
decanter of brandy within easy reach and by them laid a pencil and
a pad of paper. It was when I straightened up that I first felt the
pounding in my body. My heart pulsed as if it were smashing waves of
blood through my veins. In my throat, the large arteries swelled with
pressure until I thought I would strangle.

I had to have some physical exertion to relieve the tension. I felt
I might faint or have a stroke unless I moved about. My father had
been stricken with an embolism at about my age, and I've read such
weaknesses are inherited.

So I walked about the house rechecking the locks of windows and
doors. Perhaps it was just to keep busy for a few more moments that
I even rechecked the pads of cardboard with which I had muffled the
bellclappers on both telephone and door chime. I don't seem to have
had many callers for several years now, but I had to avoid any chance
of being disturbed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Somewhat calmed by my exertion, I prepared to lie down, but a
sentimental whim moved me like an automaton toward the window. It was
the only really unreasoning thing I did.

Like a prisoner denied the light on penalty of torture, I knelt down
and looked under the blind. Never was the Sun so dazzling. This
slightest lifting of the shade poured onto me a warmth that I had never
known before.

An old saying, invading my mind, destroyed the illusion, and laughing a
bit nervously at "seeking his place in the Sun," I turned away and lay
down.

The dials on my new calendar clock registered 3:15, July 12. Reaching
for my pad and pencil, I recorded this and then, refolding my hands
across my chest, I lay quite still.

The heat of the day had begun to saturate the closed room. Outside, all
was quiet, as if the Sun had mesmerized the world. The insect hum of
the electric clock was the only clue of life around me.

Looming large above me in the mirror, the magnified reflection of my
face calmed my mind with its placidity. Greatlidded Buddha eyes gazed
down, holding in their glow my first understanding of Nirvana.

I knew that it had come. I had reached the boundary where the fear of
returnless going stopped the psyche just this side.

My only body consciousness was the heavy thud ... thud ... thud
of blood being driven through my veins. I toyed with stopping the
thudding, feeling and savoring the pause between those sledgehammer
strokes on my brainknowing that any one of those pauses lengthened to
eternity was death.

Suddenly I shrieked and sat upright. For an instant, my body had
completely stopped and I had known it. Only a nameless grasping fear
had snatched me back.

My heart beat wildly as I gasped for air. With shaking hands, I poured
a drink and gulped it down. It had been close.

Still trembling, I arose and slumped into a chair. I had to organize
myself, to think my way along this thing.

What had happened to me?

This one thing I knew: I could do it. I could stop my body at will
and I had done it, if only for a second.

This thought reassured me or perhaps the brandy opened my reserve of
courage, for I had been sitting in the chair some time.

       *       *       *       *       *

With caution, I approached the pallet. I regarded it with suspicion, as
though there were a deadly scorpion in its folds. Then, jeering at my
hesitation, I lay down and composed myself as before. The clock said
5:05. I stirred again only to record this on the pad.

Despite my nervousness, things proceeded faster this time. A morbid
excitement carried me along the path I now already knew. And at its
end, I flirted with the stopping. Going over and stepping back, going
over and stepping back.

It was a pleasure exquisite and unique. Once felt, it was unresistable.

I was no longer afraid. I did not have to be. I could stop my body and
start it at will. So I let it slip away from me. The thuddings ceased
and only the pauses remainedsilent, shapeless things in endless
procession. And then the great silence. It flowed over me and I was
lost.

The silence was too heavy and my thoughts were not my own; they floated
up away from me in the silence. I could feel them go, but there was
nothing to bring them back. Each thought of protest winged its way
into a void with all the rest.

And nothing else remained but the will to live. As the silence lapped
around this will, it grew until it alone was I. The silence washed
about it, but it stood.

Then the little rippings and the slicings and the tearings and the
softening of things were thereheard without sound, felt without
feeling, like the pulling of a tooth from a novocainedeadened jaw.

It was then I saw the face.

Have you ever felt the terror of suddenly waking with a facea face
of eyesstaring into your unguarded and bewildered first glance? One
feels as if this face would look into one's very life and wrest it from
him. Perhaps it is a nascent fear of one's own mask of death.

But I could not escape the mask. It loomed above me with gaping maw
and staring eyes; eyes that seemed more dead and deadly as my vision
cleared. The mirror enlarged the horror that lay below it.

It was the wrench of nausea that pulled me from this nightmare. In the
violence of the retching, I rolled from beneath the mirror and raised
myself to hands and knees. I had knocked over the clock and it shouted
up at me10:05, July 15. Three days! Too long! Too horribly long!

       *       *       *       *       *

Slowly I dragged myself to the telephone and pulled it from the stand.
I remember nothing else until they brought me here.

It's been eight dayseight days away from death, yet I'm closer to
it now than ever before. And I can't think of it. The fear has come
crashing through and I can't think.

This thing, this body is too far gone. I won't be able to make it move.
I'll just feel it getting awaylittle by littleripping apart cell by
cell, and then everywhere all at once.

I can feel it now. But in that great silence, I could almost hear the
tearingyet there was no sound.

The doctors have given up all hope. I can see it in their faces. I
could hear them talking among themselves when they brought me in. They
had to give it a name. There's a certain safety in a name, you know.

I would have told them, but I was afraid they'd laugh. The nurses would
laugh and say to each other, "Have you heard what the one in 408 wanted
in his case history?"

I couldn't stand the laughter now.

But that's the way my chart should readCause of Death:Death!
